---
layout: post
title: Packing
permalink: packing
---

One interesting part of this trip that I'm working on now is deciding what to bring to Taiwan. I have to decide what to leave behind in Calgary and what to dispose of altogether. This is a challenge because of the indefinite nature of my future; I'll obviously live on my own again at some point (so I would prefer not to get rid of my desk and mattress) but keeping them is costly. I have limited resources available to keep items (basically, how much will fit into the vehicle that we're driving back to Calgary) and I have to prioritize.

The first step is to identify items that I'm not willing to part with. This could be due to the value of the item, the personal significance of the item, the continuing usefulness of the item, or the difficult in replacing that item. Some obvious candidates are my laptop, cell phone, camera, certain items of clothing, a few gifts, and some hobby items (Rubik's Cubes, dice, darts, etc.).

The next obvious thing to do is identify items that I should part with regardless of resources. I'm a bit of a hoarder, so these are usually items that I have been reluctant to part with in the past. Clothes that don't fit, old papers, useless containers, and a couple other items I see scattered around the room are clear candidates for this position.

Once I have those two categories sorted, I need a plan. I think it would be best to organize items into tiers. That way, I can fill the vehicle with top priority items until I run out of space, and the items being left behind will be the items with the least value to me. The issue is further complicated due to the size of the items. If I have something particularly large in tier two, it may take up space that could have been used for six or seven tier three items, thereby resulting in a lower total value overall. It's the knapsack problem in real life.

How do we solve this? I could have a system that classifies items by their value density (something of lower value that is very small goes in before something of slightly higher value that is much larger), but this seems difficult to actually pull off. I can't use hill climbing/genetic annealing/other combinatorial oprimization solutions to solve it without assigning values to anything, but I can still apply the general concepts to my packing.

What will probably happen is that I will pull out each available medium for transporting items (grab some boxes) and fill them with whatever I please. If there are items I still want to take, I'll replace something in the box. If all the boxes don't fit into the vehicle, I'll be screwed. Furniture will be disposed of on the day I leave somehow.

**2015-08-18:** Moved out. Managed to leave my furniture with a friend (thank you!!) and was able to fit most of my stuff into the vehicle we rented. Had to leave behind some larger low priority items.
