---
layout: post
title: One Month
permalink: one-month
---

One month from today, I will be waking up to my first day in Taipei. In only two weeks, I'll be leaving Vancouver for almost eight months.

When I first came to Vancouver 3 years and 11 months ago, I  didn't have a single friend in the city. I'd only visited once, and only taken a cursory walk through the campus. I also skipped orientation and had no plans to attend frosh.

Since that day, I've met hundreds, perhaps thousands of people. I've made dozens of great friends and had so many amazing experiences. I've personally grown and become a more capable person.

Saying goodbye is always hard, even when you know you'll be back. Vancouver and the friends I've made have all helped turn me into the person I am now, and it's a real shame that I won't be able to see them for so long. 

Taiwan will be a new experience. I've spent plenty of time travelling, even travelling alone, but never for quite this long. I'm going to Taiwan without much of a plan - I can't simply rely on my list of landmarks this time. I'm really looking forward to the challenge. 

When I was in high school, I strongly considered applying to university abroad. I mostly considered Japan, though I put some brief thought into Hong Kong or Shanghai. I ended up getting scared out of applying due to the expense, studying as an international student is really expensive. This trip feels like a bit of a triumph over my highschool self, I've finally faced one of the challenges that I couldn't overcome at the time.

Whatever happens on this trip, I'm sure I'll enjoy it. I'm sure I'll make new friends and I'm sure I'll learn more about myself. How much more can I ask for?
