---
layout: post
title: Origins
permalink: origins
---

Whenever anyone goes travelling, they tend to find a way to keep their friends updated. Some do this through a hashtag, some through vlogging, some through blogging. I like the blogging approach. I've maintained my own personal blog for quite a while and I wanted to keep a separate one for my little adventures in Taiwan. This blog also provided me with a challenging technical project.

Let's talk about the backbone of this site. The first blogging software I used was probably LiveJournal many years ago. More recently, WordPress has been the front runner in the blogging world, but I've never been satisfied with WordPress sites. I wanted a solution that gave me more control over the layout and publishing of my content. After putting together the [sfudebate website](http://sfudebate.ca), I started building my own blog in PHP.

As with most of my little projects I quickly ran into problems with the scope. The straw that broke the camel's back was the RSS feed. I had little interest in building a feed generator from scratch and couldn't find a good package to handle it. It was also challenging to handle title elements, pagination, photo galleries, and a number of other little parts of the site that seemed important. Building a blog is a challenge I'd like to return to in a couple years once I have more PHP experience.

After looking around for a while I decided to build the blog using [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/). This gave me a chance to learn about Ruby, Liquid, and SASS. Putting together a rough site was fairly quick once Ruby was installed. Most of the development time was spent on the theme of the site. I also put together a dynamic gallery, added pagination, and added an index page. I wanted the text to be readable, so I spent a bit more time justifying it and making words hyphenate properly.

Publishing posts is very easy, I just generate the site using Jekyll and upload the completed site via FTP. I'll probably run into problems installing Jekyll in the future, but for now this solution is more than enough. In the future, I'd like to set up a watched directory that will generate and upload the changes automatically.

What about blog content? I'll post here every couple weeks on whatever tickles my fancy. I'll put nice photos into the photo gallery. I will also never send anyone a link to this site (except perhaps some family members). If they find it - good work! If they actually care - even better! I'm only writing because I find it beneficial to have my thoughts on paper and because I enjoy the process. If you're reading this, then I already have a bigger audience than I planned. I hope you continue to enjoy my posts!
